---
layout: post
title: Why I Code
feature-img: "img/prague.jpg"
---

See that photo right up there? The real wide one with all the bridges? That's Prague. It's in the Czech Republic (formerly Czechoslovakia). It's stunning. Well, that's what I hear. I haven't been there yet. 

When I was in high school I got a job at a restaurant. Then I got a job as a landscaper for a few summers. Then I got a job as a door-to-door salesman. Then I got a job vending concert merchandise. Then I got a job as a camp counselor. Then I got a job as a painter. Then I got a job as a bartender. These jobs, my friends, are far from glamorous, but they paid the bills. Many of them are good, hard, honest labor. I *loved* these jobs. I built things, I used my hands, I drank beer, I saw concerts. These jobs were exciting and filled me with passion and zeal. And from them I learned a million lessons. No, two million lessons. But chiefest among these lessons was that I don't want these sort of jobs any more. 

I was working a closing shift on a Friday night, my sixth weekend closing shift in as many weeks, when I realized it was killing me. Not actually (duh), but mentally I was freaking out. I couldn't stand finishing my shift with a pint in hand, flipping through the good times my friends were documenting on SnapChat. This was petty. I realize that. Petty, yes, but it got me thinking that all this hourly labor wasn't for me. And I'd always known that, I'd just never known much of an alternative. 

I took a weekend trip to Spokane about 5 months ago to help with my cousin's engagement to his sweetheart of a girlfriend. It's a 4-hour drive, and I filled it with podcasts and music like every normal person does. On my way home I did something unique, though. I shut the entertainment down and I drove in silence. I started to think about what I was actually missing out on working the hourly, blue-collar jobs I was so used to. This got me thinking about Prague. I reflected on my travels, on the moments in my life I wanted more of, the lifestyle that filled me up rather than drained me out, and on that drive I discovered something that millennials like myself just aren't talking about: *you don't need to be passionate about your career.*

This is, of course, blasphemy. Not to our parents, who hail from the dutiful, one-job generation (I speak from my own experience, so pardon my generality). This is blasphemy to people my age. It's blasphemy to who I was on the drive *to* Spokane. I was mentally gathering the stones with which to punish my blasphemy when I connected some very important dots:
My prior jobs were jobs. Jobs suck. I need a job. My old jobs were inflexible. My new job should be flexible. My old jobs paid little. My new job should pay lots. My new job should let me travel. My new job should be a travel writer. That idea is bad. My new job should *afford* me travel. That idea is good. My dad codes. My dad makes a lot of money. My dad has a lot of flexibility. I should code. 

How's that for stream of consciousness? 

Then I started thinking about Prague, again. I saw myself sitting at a cafe patio in Prague, and the morning sun is shining warm on my face, and my laptop is open and I'm making moolah working a job I'm not passionate about.
